This is a copy of the charter from https://ebpf.foundation/charter/ . It is not
the authoratitive source for the currently active version of the charter.

# The eBPF Foundation Charter

The Linux Foundation
Amended August 23, 2022

## 1) Mission and Scope of the eBPF Foundation.

#. The purpose of the eBPF Foundation (the “Directed Fund”) is to raise, budget
and spend funds in support of various open source, open data and/or open
standards projects relating to eBPF technologies, including infrastructure and
support initiatives related thereto (each project, a “Technical Project” as
defined in Section 9).  The governance of each Technical Project is as set
forth in the applicable charter for each Technical Project.

#. The Directed Fund supports the Technical Projects. Except with respect to
the operation of the BSC (as defined below), the Directed Fund operates under
the guidance of the Governing Board of the Directed Fund (the “Governing
Board”) and The Linux Foundation (the “LF”) as may be consistent with The Linux
Foundation’s tax-exempt status.

#. The Governing Board manages the Directed Fund. The Directed Fund will also
have working groups, councils, committees and similar bodies (collectively,
“Committees”) that may be established by either the Governing Board or the BSC
(as defined below).

## 2) Membership.

#. The Directed Fund will be composed of Platinum, Silver and Associate Members
(each, a “Member” and, collectively, the “Members”) in Good Standing. All
Members must be current corporate members of the LF (at any level) to
participate in the Directed Fund as a member. All participants in the Directed
Fund, enjoy the privileges and undertake the obligations described in this
Charter, as from time to time amended with the approval of the LF. During the
term of their membership, all members will comply with all such policies as the
LF Board of Directors and/or the Directed Fund may adopt with notice to
members.

#. Platinum Members will be entitled to appoint a representative to the
Governing Board and any Committee except for the BSC or Committees established
by the BSC.

#. Silver Members, acting as a class, will be entitled to annually elect one
representative to the Governing Board for every five Silver Members, up to a
maximum of three representatives, provided that there will always be at least
one Silver Member representative, even if there are less than five Silver
Members. The Governing Board determines the election process.

#. The Associate Member category of membership is limited to Associate Members
of The Linux Foundation. The Governing Board may set additional criteria for
joining the Directed Fund as an Associate Member. If the Associate Member is a
membership organization, Associate Membership in the Directed Fund does not
confer any benefits or rights to the members of the Associate Member.

#. Members will be entitled to:

   #. participate in Directed Fund general meetings, initiatives, events and
   any other activities; and

   #. identify themselves as members of the eBPF Foundation supporting the eBPF
   Foundation community.

## 3) Governing Board

#. The Governing Board voting members will consist of:

   #. one representative appointed by each Platinum Member;

   #. the elected Silver Member representative or representatives.

#. Only one Member that is part of a group of Related Companies (as defined in
Section 6) may appoint, or nominate for a membership class election, a
representative on the Governing Board.  No single Member, company or set of
Related Companies will be entitled to: (i) appoint or nominate for Membership
class election more than one representative for the Governing Board, or (ii)
have more than two representatives on the Governing Board.

#. Conduct of Meetings

   #. Governing Board meetings will be limited to the Governing Board
   representatives,  invited guests and LF staff.

   #. Governing Board meetings follow the requirements for quorum and voting
   outlined in this Charter. The Governing Board may decide whether to allow
   named representatives (one per Member per Governing Board and per Committee)
   to attend as an alternate.

   #. The Governing Board meetings will be private unless decided otherwise by
   the Governing Board. The Governing Board may invite guests to participate in
   consideration of specific Governing Board topics (but such guest may not
   participate in any vote on any matter before the Governing Board).

#. Officers

   #. The officers (“Officers”) of the Directed Fund as of the first meeting of
   the Governing Board will be a Chairperson (“Chair”) and a Treasurer.
   Additional Officer positions may be created by the Governing Board.

   #. The Chair will preside over meetings of the Governing Board, manage any
   day-to-day operational decisions, and will submit minutes for Governing
   Board approval.

   #. The Treasurer will assist in the preparation of budgets for Governing
   Board approval, monitor expenses against the budget and authorize
   expenditures approved in the budget.

#. The Governing Board will be responsible for overall management of the
Directed Fund, including:

   #. create Committees of the Governing Board;

   #. approve a budget directing the use of funds raised by the Directed Fund
   from all sources of revenue;

   #. nominate and elect Officers of the Directed Fund;

   #. except for those matters that are the responsibility of the BSC, oversee
   all Directed Fund business matters and work with the LF on any legal matters
   that arise;

   #. adopt and maintain policies or rules and procedures for the Directed Fund
   (subject to LF approval);

   #. approve procedures for the nomination and election of any representative
   of the Silver Members to the Governing Board and any Officer or other
   positions created by the Governing Board; and

   #. vote on all decisions or matters coming before the Governing Board.

## 4) eBPF Steering Committee (“BSC”)

#. The role of the BSC is to facilitate communication and collaboration among
the Technical Projects. The BSC will be responsible for:

   #. coordinating collaboration among Technical Projects, including
   development of an overall technical vision for the community;

   #. making recommendations to the Governing Board of resource priorities for
   Technical Projects;

   #. defining the minimal requirements of Technical Projects;

   #. communicating on behalf of the eBPF community;

   #. establishing and overseeing committees focused on driving the mission of
   the eBPF Foundation including eBPF community events;

   #. creating, maintaining and amending Technical Project lifecycle procedures
   and processes; and

   #. such other matters related to the technical role of the BSC as may be
   communicated to the BSC by the Governing Board

#. The voting members of the BSC consist of:

   #. Two Linux Kernel representatives from the group of eBPF Linux kernel
   maintainers (as specified in the Linux eBPF maintainer file). The Linux
   Kernel representatives must not be employed by the same Company or by
   Related Companies.

   #.  Up to two representatives from other open source eBPF runtime
   implementations. Each “eBPF Runtime Representative” will represent a
   different eBPF runtime chosen by the BSC, and must be an active contributor
   to that eBPF runtime.

   #. Up to three Technical Project representatives. Each Technical Project
   Representative candidate must be an active contributor to a different
   Technical Project chosen by the BSC.

   #.  Up to two eBPF Landscape Project representatives. Each eBPF Landscape
   Project Representative candidate must be an active contributor to a
   different eBPF Landscape Project chosen by the BSC.

   There can be at most two representatives on the BSC employed by the same
   company or by Related Companies. While normally members will serve two-year
   terms, the BSC will set initial term length so as to stagger elections.
   Representatives from each project (Linux kernel, other runtimes, etc.) are
   nominated by the applicable oversight body, such as the set of maintainers
   or similar. of the project. All elected  representatives are subject to
   ratification by the BSC which is responsible for ensuring the affiliation
   limitations above across the set of all representatives.

#. One representative of any Member may observe meetings of the BSC. Any
committers from a Technical Project may observe meetings of the BSC. The BSC
may change this at any point in time, including: (a) opening meetings to a
broader community; (b) holding closed meetings; and (c) holding meetings open
to the public.

#. The BSC may approve a Technical Project lifecycle policy that will address
the incubation, archival and other stages and requirements of Technical
Projects.

#. The BSC representatives will elect a chair to preside over meetings, ensure
minutes are taken and drive the BSC agenda with input from the BSC
representatives.

## 5) Voting

#. Quorum for Governing Board, BSC and other Committee meetings will require at
least sixty percent of the voting representatives. If advance notice of the
meeting has been given per normal means and timing, the Governing Board may
continue to meet even if quorum is not met, but will be prevented from making
any decisions at the meeting.

#. Ideally decisions will be made based on consensus. If, however, any decision
requires a vote to move forward, the representatives of the Governing Board,
BSC or Committee, as applicable, will vote on a one vote per voting
representative basis.

#. Except as provided in Section 13.a. or elsewhere in this Charter, decisions
by vote at a meeting will require a simple majority vote, provided quorum is
met. Except as provided in Section 16.a. or elsewhere in this Charter,
decisions by electronic vote without a meeting will require a majority of all
voting representatives.

#. In the event of a tied vote with respect to an action that cannot be
resolved by the Governing Board, BSC or other Committee, the Chair (in the case
of the Governing Board or BSC) or a Committee member (in the case other
Committees) may refer the matter to the Governing Board or BSC in the case of a
Committee or in the case of the Governing Board or the BSC, the LF for
assistance in reaching a decision.

## 6) Subsidiaries and Related Companies

#. Definitions:

   #. “Subsidiaries” means any entity in which a Member owns, directly or
   indirectly, more than fifty percent of the voting securities or membership
   interests of the entity in question;

   #. “Related Company” means any entity which controls or is controlled by a
   Member or which, together with a Member, is under the common control of a
   third party, in each case where such control results from ownership, either
   directly or indirectly, of more than fifty percent of the voting securities
   or membership interests of the entity in question; and

   #. “Related Companies” are entities that are each a Related Company of a
   Member.

#. Only the legal entity which has executed a Participation Agreement and its
Subsidiaries will be entitled to enjoy the rights and privileges of such
Membership; provided, however, that such Member and its Subsidiaries will be
treated together as a single Member.

#. If a Member is itself a foundation, association, consortium, open source
project, membership organization, user group or other entity that has members
or sponsors, then the rights and privileges granted to such Member will extend
only to the employee-representatives of such Member, and not to its members or
sponsors, unless otherwise approved by the Governing Board in a specific case.

#. Directed Fund Membership is non-transferable, non-salable and
non-assignable, except a Member may transfer its current Membership benefits
and obligations to a successor of substantially all of its business or assets,
whether by merger, sale or otherwise; provided that the transferee agrees to be
bound by this Charter and the Bylaws and policies required by LF membership.

## 7) Good Standing

#. The Linux Foundation’s Good Standing Policy is available at
https://www.linuxfoundation.org/good-standing-policy and will apply to Members
of this Directed Fund.

## 8) Trademarks

#. Any trademarks relating to the Directed Fund or the Technical Projects,
including without limitation any mark relating to any conformance program, must
be transferred to and held by LF Projects, LLC or the Linux Foundation and
available for use pursuant to LF Projects, LLC’s trademark usage policy,
available at www.lfprojects.org/trademarks/.

## 9) Technical Projects

A Technical Project is defined as being an open source project that meets the
following criteria.

#. It must meet the Trademarks requirement in Section 8.

#. It must accept the eBPF Foundation as its primary support structure. For
example, the applicable oversight body of the Technical Project agrees to send
any budget requests to the eBPF Foundation and to abide by requirements and
recommendations from the eBPF Foundation.

#. The BSC must have voted to accept the project as being a Technical Project
consistent with the mission and scope of the eBPF Foundation.

## 10) Antitrust Guidelines

#. All Members must abide by The Linux Foundation’s Antitrust Policy available
at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy.

#. All Members must encourage open participation from any organization able to
meet the membership requirements, regardless of competitive interests. Put
another way, the Governing Board will not seek to exclude any member based on
any criteria, requirements or reasons other than those that are reasonable and
applied on a non-discriminatory basis to all members.

## 11) Budget

#. The Governing Board will approve an annual budget and never commit to spend
in excess of funds raised. The budget and the purposes to which it is applied
must be consistent with both (a) the non-profit and tax-exempt mission of The
Linux Foundation and (b) the aggregate goals of the Technical Projects.

#. The Linux Foundation will provide the Governing Board with regular reports
of spend levels against the budget. Under no circumstances will The Linux
Foundation have any expectation or obligation to undertake an action on behalf
of the Directed Fund or otherwise related to the Directed Fund that is not
covered in full by funds raised by the Directed Fund.

#. In the event an unbudgeted or otherwise unfunded obligation arises related
to the Directed Fund, The Linux Foundation will coordinate with the Governing
Board to address gap funding requirements.

## 12) General & Administrative Expenses

#. The Linux Foundation will have custody of and final authority over the usage
of any fees, funds and other cash receipts.

#. A General & Administrative (G&A) fee will be applied by The Linux Foundation
to funds raised to cover membership records, finance, accounting, and human
resources operations. The G&A fee will be 9% of the Directed Fund’s first
$1,000,000 of gross receipts each year and 6% of the Directed Fund’s gross
receipts each year over $1,000,000.

## 13) General Rules and Operations.

The Directed Fund activities must:

#. engage in the work of the project in a professional manner consistent with
maintaining a cohesive community, while also maintaining the goodwill and
esteem of The Linux Foundation in the open source community;

#. respect the rights of all trademark owners, including any branding and usage
guidelines;

#. engage or coordinate with The Linux Foundation on all outreach, website and
marketing activities regarding the Directed Fund or on behalf of any Technical
Project that invoke or associate the name of any Technical Project or The Linux
Foundation; and

#. operate under such rules and procedures as may be approved by the Governing
Board and confirmed by The Linux Foundation.

## 14) Amendments

#. This Charter may be amended by a 70% vote of the entire Governing Board and
BSC, subject to approval by The Linux Foundation.
